## Why do I apply MSc Political Sociology Programme?

The way world works is a big puzzle for me. Growing up in a State-owned enterprise family, I have witnessed the community decaying with the waning of steel industry.  I have seen the biggest church in my neighborhood been fiercely removed. I have heard my father participated in combat corruption investigation against the ex-chairman.Since then, the enterprise-community relations, the state-religion relations, the crime-regulation relations began lingered on my mind. Unconsciously, I started to stepped in the core area of political sociology.

Because day-to-day events always affects my fate, to investigate the underlying forces become my zealous aspiration. How to find the suitable programme? In 2017, my instinct led me reviewed my reading list over ten years. All the impressive contents were flowing in my mind, converging into the sea of Political Sociology. And the motto of LSE, Which extracts from Latin poet Virgil's “**Felix, qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas**”, really touched the deepest part of my being. It reminds me that study the causes of things is exactly the origin of my happiness.

LSE has the distinguished reputation of social science research. Bertrand Russell, Friedrich Hayek and Fei Xiaotong, the wise men of LSE are the most breathtaking school admission advertisement. Not to say the 18 Nobel prizes. I am enchanted by their mastery and eager to join them. Moreover, LSE has the most diverse campus among world, which would provide me with different world-views that are crucial to the social science study. Furthermore, I love the teaching style mixed theory and practice. It is really fascinating that my colleague graduated from LSE described the negotiation class: ex-high official guided the students to complete simulated Brexit negotiations. As an output, the final text is collected by the Parliament to serve the real negotiation. It is so exciting that students are encouraged to resolve real problem by knowledge.

Therefore my decision is rooted in my life, both passionate and deliberative, LSE is the holy space where I can dedicate to my research and fulfill my dream.

## Why am I the ideal student?

### Academic awareness

Seldom can people find a student with strong academic awareness like me. Which means proposing good questions firstly. With 5 years training of news reporting, I can see through the daily noises and grasp the real significant issues. Most of my articles are wrote from a tiny events but always showed the big picture. Which got 20 million pageviews and positive comments from professors and doctors. I was also invited to deliver lectures about how to find good questions in Renmin university. For example, why government struggled to allocate pension across provinces? Why the post-neoliberism reform in France are doomed? Why the power of Chinese government is at the centre of fierce controversy? In fact, I am mesmerized by these critical topics even in casual chatting. Secondly it means the awareness of deploying academic results. All the literature stands for the accumulation of human wisdom. Therefore I keep viewing papers in my work even it is related to the abstruse topic like mechanics. Only soaked these essence, can my analysis article be as professional as the authorities. There is no exaggeration in saying that though I left the university 5 years ago, I always follow the academic trends .

### Academic methods 

Academic methods is my second advantage. Using method is the most special ability of a researcher. Actually, my work is already integrated withe some qualitative method. In 2012 I have conducted a social survey and won the first prize on the provincial level. In 2017 I tried a participant observation in Dungan village in Kazakhstan with British, German and Russian scholars. In 2019 I have led unstructured Interviews with 7 former Chinese ambassadors and produced a panorama report of Chinese diplomatic history. Meanwhile I master in several quantitive methods. Because of learning statistics, python, R , SQL and Tableau, regression analysis and basic machine learning is familiar to me. For example I have adopted a model to explore the [social network of the extremist](https://slides.com/houyichao/deck-1/live#/). Then used python and tableau to illustrate the [Mobike usage](https://public.tableau.com/profile/henry8017) condition in Shanghai. I used to feel embarrassed to talk about my Alma *Mater* for graduating from a median university. However, many intellectual methods encourage me to break such stereotype or stigma.

###Academic innovation

Innovation ability is neither a born talent nor a hard-working fruit. It just like chemical reactions. Many 'Chemical elements' just happened in my life. Apart from my major history, I am well-informed in sociology, microeconomics, anthropology, psychology and philosophy. As a result the interdisciplinary methods would contribute a lot to the political sociology research. And it already did. For example, Benedict Anderson applied literature materials like poems and novels to explain nationalism. Philip George Zimbardo analyzed how to persuade people with the social factors by many psychology experiments. Additionally, I have a roadmap of innovation—cite space. To get the landscape of political sociology, I have downloaded 2300 papers of *American Sociological Review* from web of science, then generated a knowledge network through co-citation analysis ([report](https://www.houyichao.com/article/2019-06-07%E6%94%BF%E6%B2%BB%E7%A4%BE%E4%BC%9A%E5%AD%A6%E7%9F%A5%E8%AF%86%E5%9B%BE%E8%B0%B1/)). Which illustrated the academic frontier and the bursts point which lead to innovation. 

### Acedemic resources

Last but not least, academic resources is also extremely important for a scholar. In that dimension I own several types of resources. The literature resources was hold by powerful bibliographic management software Zotero. From the year of 2018, I have download 4844 items and classified them clearly. With the exercise of fast-reading, it is easily for me to extract the core ideas from them. My interviewee resources is  kind of exclusive resources for research. Working in Ifeng New Media which is specialize in Chinese politics for almost 5 years, I have interviewed the Chief Negotiator for China’s accession to the WTO—Long Yongtu and dozens of officials and academics. Besides I have come into contact with almost 80 grassroots officials, which enable me to peer the processing of political system behind the curtains. Finally, I manage a WeChat Subscriber which affect 1.6 million reader's political attitudes, such response give me a special insight of Chinese public opinion field. These are all precious sources for political sociology study. 

## What is my plan after graduate?

The study in LSE must be an intense and fruitful experience. In the course I will get a strict academic training, resuming connection with academic circles. Through researches and debates my insight about Chinese society would be more penetrating, that would contribute to a first-class graduation dissertation.

As I mentioned before, LSE emphasize both theory and practice. With a well-educated mind, an analyst of think tank, a statesman of public administration or a political journalist would not only be my position choices, but also my career calling (Beruf). Actually, my LSE-graduated colleagues, Song Dongze and Tang yang, both set a good example for dedication and professionalism. 

Beyond that I dream of starting an organization to facilitating the China reform in political field. I long for the day when I have the confidence of proposing useful advice to my officer friends, and persuading friends in the Chinese People's Congress. I believe the friendships I cultivated in LSE would empower me lot. If the cost of society progress can be reduced slightly, it would be a greatest achievement for me.

That is the end of my personal statement. Impart me a chance, I will return a miracle.
